[MUSIC]
>> Mike: So we're gonna jump into
what an app looks like here, and
then we're going to
create an app of our own.
And a common reaction when you get
started is that there are a lot
of folders to deal will,
a lot of folders and a lot of files.
So you will see these folders and
on the top we've got app, which is
the source code for your application.
A lot of time spent in the app folder,
right,
that's where all of
the objects you defined exist.
Vendor is a last resort for assets,
this is where you're writing a shim.
You're trying to get PhantomJS 1.9 working
and it doesn't support function bind, and
this is where you would
put that kind of thing.
Public is sort of a pass-through, it's
a good place for images, things like that.
Whatever you put in here
will be unaltered and
published with the distributed
build of your application.
The tests folder,
it is what it sounds like,
that is where all of your tests exist.
And then the config folder,
there's one file in there that is
a place to define the configuration of
your app on a per-environment basis.
So if you wanted to say,
I want extra logging in development mode,
that is where you would
put this kind of thing.
You'll also see a whole bunch of
other folders, ignore them for now.
These are managed by the tool chain.
They contain things like dependencies,
our bower dependencies,
intermediate build results.
And we can take a look at
what's in this folder but
you will never need to touch it not in
the first year of working on Ember.
I don't expect that you'll
need to take a look in there.
So if you look in the app folder,
which is where-
>> Speaker 2: There was a question.
>> Mike: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: On data persistence.
>> Speaker 2: They're asking is Ember Data
built from another DB or its own.
>> Mike: Built from another DB.
>> Speaker 2: I think they're asking,
where does it come from?
>> Mike: So,
Ember Data is not strictly part of Ember,
you can use Ember without Ember Data.
But Ember Data is just
a conventional means of interacting
with a restful service, restful API.
It has some internal
caching built into it so
that if you now a record of this type,
I don't expect it to
change within the time frame of when
the user is using this application.
That is the layer where you can say,
don't refetch this,
just return what you
already have in memory.
It's where you can define
relationships between objects, and
the idea is, with Ember Data,
it gives you the ability to define the
how, in terms of interacting with an API.
And then you can just deal
with manipulating records and
accessing properties on records.
And then the appropriate API requests
will be sent out automatically.
So, it lets you kind of establish
how to interact with the API,
and then you don't have to worry about it.
You just say, tell me how many
items are in this to do list and
it will make the request that's necessary,
lazily fetching that data and
then returning the result to you.
We'll get to that in detail,
it's a little hard to explain
in a one minute answer here.
So looking at what you'll
see in the app folder here,
we have a place for templates,
a place for things called routes which
deal with transitioning to instate,
components, helpers.
So we'll keep referring back to this, but
I wanna show you this just to help you
understand that you're gonna see a lot of
files, you're gonna see a lot of folders.
Each of these has an expressed purpose,
and
the idea here is to have objects
that do something and do it well.
And this means the app
is highly discretized,
there are a lot of objects,
each has a single concern.
And therefore you know that if I need to
massage JSON data I should do it here.
If I need to deal with transitioning
between states I do it here.
So don't be intimidated by the size of the
source code, is sort of the takeaway here.
So this is a great opportunity here to
pause for questions if there are any.
Cuz we're about to jump into
actually how to write the code, yes?
>> Speaker 3: What are your thoughts
on using the pod structure instead of,
I guess, the original directory structure?
>> Mike: Good question, so
pod structure is just, for
those who are unfamiliar, it's a different
way of structuring your source code.
And it would essentially let you,
instead of saying in this case, if
you have a component which is a JavaScript
module that is matched with a template.
Your JavaScript module would be in
the components folder app/components,
your template would be in app/templates.
And so you sort of end up
having to jump around in
order to find these two objects that
really closely relate to each other.
If you set things up in this alternate
way called the pod structure,
you would sort of have a folder
that represents everything that
is concerned with a given component.
And you'd have the JavaScript right
there and the template there.
It has a lot of promise, there are still
a few kinks that we need to work out.
And part of the challenge of dealing
with maintaining a happy path is that
when you try to make things more flexible
or provide an alternate route, it's
a challenge to make sure that we continue
to support this way of doing things.
And at the same time, make available
the new way of doing things.
So for example, there are some issues that
are more of in add-ons where if you have
pods, there are some cases
where you can break things.
Which is why I'm teaching this today,
this is sort of,
pretty much guaranteed to work.
But, if you learn this you could
read a blog article about pods and
all of the knowledge that
we're gonna go over today and
tomorrow will carry over quite neatly.
It's literally just a difference
of where you place certain files,
with really no other impact
on the app as a whole.
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Yep.
>> Mike: Great.
>> Speaker 2: There's a couple more
questions coming in.
They would like you to explain
the services on the slides.
>> Mike: Yes,
I'm going to punt on that one,
I'll defer that because we have
a section today on services.
We're going to go deep into that, a very
important concept, but we'll dive into it.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, and then are there any
other non-documented folders like utils?
>> Mike: Yes, there are more folders
than what you're seeing here.
And in fact,
when you initially create an app,
you may not even see all of
these folders in your app.
But this is sort of the standard
place to put things.
And as we dive in,
you'll see that naming of modules and
placement in the appropriate
folder is very important in Ember.
Because it automatically looks for
things in certain locations.
And you end up saving a lot of time by not
having to be explicit and specify that
the source code for
the component called social info
is in a ES6 module in the components
folder called social-info.js.
That's one of those decisions that Ember's
trying to remove from the developer
because that's not interesting,
quite frankly.
That has nothing to do with making
your app your app, making it unique.
It's something that we all have
to handle across our apps,
and it's in the sort of common area.
>> Speaker 3: You said pod
structure can break add-ons.
Are you referring to the add-on in
particular if you use pod structure
in your add-on?
Or are you referring to using some add-ons
when you have pod structure in your
application can cause issues.
>> Mike: The issue I'm aware
of is when you consume
an add-on that is organized
with pod structure.
>> Speaker 3: And you have pod structure,
the [INAUDIBLE] right?
>> Mike: Yes, the add-on will
pass its tests and work fine, but
it has to do with the consumption
of it where you can have issues.
And this is tracked and odds are by
the time this course is published,
this issue will have been fixed.
>> Speaker 3: Cuz I thought Stefan was
pushing for pods being the defacto.
>> Mike: Stef is pushing for pods.
>> Speaker 4: [LAUGH]
>> Mike: And
Stef also acknowledges that there
are still things to be worked out.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: All right.
>> Speaker 2: There's also a question
on can you switch to the pod structures
later?
>> Mike: There, we're going deep
on pods here [LAUGH] so you can.
I'm not aware of any tool that will
automatically switch things over for you.
But like I said, when we're talking about
pod structure versus not pod structure,
it is literally the name of files and
their placement in the folder structure.
So, there is no additional
complexity there.
If you were to decide to go to
the pod structure and rename and
replace your files accordingly,
things in theory should work just fine.
>> Speaker 3: And I use both.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: I use pod structure for
all my components, routes,
I use standard structure for things like
serializers and models and adapters.
Because I want to see those
all together in one chunk so
I know what serializers are.
>> Mike: Yep, and
to be honest because it's just an issue of
file placement in the folder hierarchy,
I think that it's much more
useful to dive into what these
objects do rather than how
we structure our folders.
I mean,
that is an ergonomics issue for sure.
But more important is knowing
the best practices within
these different types of objects and
modules.
>> Speaker 2: Do you want me to
keep going with these questions, or
do you wanna wait-
>> Mike: Yeah,
just a couple more.,
>> Speaker 2: This is a more
kind of general one, is it possible
to load parts of a large app?
For example, if an app has a user side and
an admin side,
is it possible to load the user's side for
users and the admin's side for admins.
>> Mike: Currently no, but
in a future version of Ember, and
Stefan made me promise to not
say it would be a 2.X version.
But there is a concept called engines and
if you've used Rails before,
this is exactly what Rails
would call this, an engine.
It's sort of a sub-application,
it would be like if you had a blog that
you could just mount in an application.
And it has a concept baked into it of
a post and a comment and an attachment.
And it's a lot of functionality
including routing and
interacting with an API all encapsulated.
So there is an effort to do this and
it's part of making the story better for
huge apps.
Like at Yahoo when I was
working on their ad platform,
100 people contributing to one project.
It would be great to have modules or
modular app structuel
where people could
individually deploy things.
And you could asynchronously
load the admin section
only in the case where
the user's an admin, and
only when they navigate to a URL
that is the admin section.
So there is awareness of the pain point,
there is a plan.
There is an RFC,
like a speck that has been discussed over
the past couple months,
a lot of lively debate there.
And I know for a fact that there are big
companies that are sponsoring core team
members to develop this
feature in the near term.